Let's start with the first learning unit, the public QA deployment pipeline.
I have explained this sequence diagram in the introductory unit of this chapter.
Now, I will show you the real object behind it, i.e. the pipeline as  used by the ARSnova project for all developers.
In this tab, I have opened the current release of the ARSnova app.
Let's start with a Smoke Test to check if the app behaves as expected.
With such an app - a feedback system - it is useful to run a test that stresses the database.
Therefore, let's create a session.
KQC creates a new session ....
If that works, a lot is gained. Yes, it looks quite alright as it should because this is the production environment.
Since this was just a test, we will delete the session again.
KQC deletes session.
And we are back at the starting point.
This is the same smoke test that we have implemented in the Travis CI pipeline that we will look at later.
We start at the beginning of the pipeline, with the version management system.
What you see here is the Jenkins Plugin that visualizes the individual stages of the pipeline.
This plugin is interactive, that means we can access the artifacts, trigger the build process etc.
Before I can do this, however, I have to log in.
Now, we have several possibilities, we can trigger the build manually ...
Before I do this, I show you the ARSnova repository.
This is the repository on Github.
If you make a commit here, Jenkins would react to this commit, because it checks the  system for changes at certain intervals.
This is the way it is implemented here. Another way is to implement hooks, so that Jenkins is started automatically after a commit was checked in.
Let's look at the different stages here:
The first is the frontend that I have shown at the beginning and that you already know.
Secondly, the backend that implements the Restful API of this app. Basically, this is JavaEE
realized with the Spring Framework and numerous other components.
Third, CouchDB for data storage.
As soon as the front- and backend of the software is build and the unit test are successful,
the jobs that are listed here are triggered, e.g. the  User Acceptance Test with a Selenium GUI Script
e.g. creating or deleting a session.
WAI tests for accessibility with automated tools.
Performance tests with Apache JMeter
Security tests to test if the app is secured against brute force attacks etc.
And static code analysis with SonarQube. This analysis might take longer that other test stages.
Once the User Acceptance Test is successful, a deployment is triggered
In this case, this stage is triggered manually, i.e. a person checks and evaluates the results and In diesem Fall wird diese Phase manuell ausgelöst, i.e. a person checks and evaluates the results and decides if the release may be deployed.
For illustration purposes, I well now start the build ...
You can see here in the yellow box, that I have triggered the build on this date and time ...
Now, the stage is finished, the frontend was built with Sencha Touch Command
and the Javascript and CSS files were minified and concatenated.
Now the backend is built. This is the same as what you do when running the start script in the VM after Vagrant Up.
Yellow indicates that the pipeline is unstable.
Now this has finished as well.
All stages of the pipeline have been processed.
And the decisive stage, which is followed by the Pre-Deployment Stage, was also triggered.
The whole process was quite fast so that we didn't even see the progress indicators.
We can now open the logs and see what happened during the individual stages. This is the log file of the frontend build.
And here the log of the backend build.
In this case, everything was fine. The logs will give you valuable information for debugging when something went wrong.
What you see here in particular are the numerous unit tests that were run.
Let's have a brief look at the result of the static code analysis.
The static code analysis generates several quality assurance metrics.
The results can be displayed graphically in SonarQube.
This was build #6.
When we change to the start page of this Jenkins job, we will see the SonarQube results.
Here you can see if the code has improved or deteriorated.
The unit test coverage is at 100%, with 77 tests in 7 seconds.
Here, we have the number of issues and their categories.These issues should be resolved.
The technical debt indicates the work load for the developers who take over the code if the issues are not resolved. In this case, it is 4 days and hours.
So much for the pipeline.
Now we should do a short smoke test to check if the system is still running.
Looks good.
We now have a new release with a commit, which produced no code changes. It was triggered manually, and we our system is in a stable delivery state again.